- In my mind, no single aspect
of the SDLC can have as much impact as testing.
Unfortunately no single aspect of the SDLC
is ignored as much as testing.
Testing for security is no exception,
in fact it may be even worse.
There are three key strategies to testing for security.
The first strategy is to leverage attack trees.
As a team, you will design user personas
and attack trees that give you step by step attack vectors
against your application.
You can then weigh the likelihood of these attacks
and the risks presented by them.
Once you have this information,
you are given an ordered list of scenarios
that should be mitigated.
You then write test to confirm the mitigations are in place.
This testing is highly effective in assuring
that your controls are in place correctly
to help protect your system.
These tests if properly automated,
can then be run on every build and every release.
Now, keep in mind these trees do change over time,
so your scenarios and tests will also have to change.
The next strategy is to leverage the risk register.
As a team, you should maintain a list of risks
within your system.
These risks will have controls and mitigations in place.
Some of these risks should be security focused.
And this is where testing comes into play.
Your risk register should be leveraged in testing
to ensure that your risks are handled appropriately.
As such, your security risks should also be tested
on each and every release.
Once again, risks change,
and you have to address these changes
in your existing tests as well as new tests.
Another area that testing comes into play
is with penetration testing tools.
You may not have a security focused person
on your team who can do this.
As such, you may have to take the lead.
Penetration tools often require
an initial learning curve to use.
And then, often another sometimes steeper learning curve
to understand and interpret the results.
This testing however can become essential
to making your software more secure
by identifying results.
Some tools can even plug into your CI/CD pipeline,
and self-discover your system based on your other tests
or service documentation.
These tools can be expensive,
but are very powerful.
You should not try to tackle all
of theses tests at once however.
Make a testing plan that works on one area,
and try to make significant headway in that area
before moving on to others.
A word of caution here, while you may be tempted
to start with penetration testing,
keep in mind the security mindset of the whole team.
If you dump a list of vulnerabilities on them day one,
they may never catch up.
Work together and focus on your plan.